templates/about/licensing.md, before:

All of the course-related content on WikiNotes is available under a [Creative Commons non-commercial license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/). By course-related content, we mean the editable pages on this site associated with a specific course. This [BIOL 111 organism chart](/BIOL_111/summary/fall-2011/organism-chart), this [guide on solving propositional logic problems for MATH 318](/MATH_318/summary/fall-2011/htsefp-propositional-logic) and this [guide on solving combinational logic problems for COMP 273](/COMP_273/summary/winter-2012/htsefp-digital-logic-combinational-logic) are all examples of student-created, course-related pages whose content is made available under [CC-BY-NC-3.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/).

# Why this license?

The notions of copyright and ownership can become a bit blurry in the context of a collaborative environment like Wikinotes. In this vein, we've adopted the same sort of policy as [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Copyrights) (although we're using a different CC license and we're not co-licensing our content under the GFDL, purely to keep things simple). Our main goal is to ensure that all the information on this site remains freely accessible to anyone who wants to access it. We don't plan on ever restricting access by forcing users to pay or otherwise jump through hoops, and our choice of license is one way of showing our commitment to free-as-in-libre content. (We also don't intend on commercialising this site through advertisements or any other means.)

# What does this mean for me?

## As a contributor

If you contribute course content, you are making them available under the same [CC-BY-NC](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/) license that all of our course content uses. Of course, you still retain copyright to your content - you are simply granting Wikinotes a license to display your content publicly. If you are not comfortable with this but still wish to contribute, [contact us](/about#contact) and we'll work something out.

## As a reader

You are free to modify and redistribute any of the CC-licensed content on our website. Printing it out for personal use, sharing it with a friend, posting it on another website, or even mirroring the content on your own website (see paragraph below) are not only acceptable by the terms of the license, but encouraged. As long as you abide by the terms of the license - which really just means attributing the content to Wikinotes and refraining from using it for commercial purposes - then it's totally fine with us.

On the other hand, please do _not_ use our content for commercial purposes or without attribution. This includes selling the notes, posting it on your website and passing it off as your own, or posting it on a website from which you derive ad revenue.

If you modify the content substantially without intending to post the changes on Wikinotes, that's okay too, although we do hope that your improvements find their way back to our site eventually.

Commit message:

Replace occurrences of Wikinotes with WikiNotes
Closes #196.

templates/about/licensing.md, after:

All of the course-related content on WikiNotes is available under a [Creative Commons non-commercial license](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/). By course-related content, we mean the editable pages on this site associated with a specific course. This [BIOL 111 organism chart](/BIOL_111/summary/fall-2011/organism-chart), this [guide on solving propositional logic problems for MATH 318](/MATH_318/summary/fall-2011/htsefp-propositional-logic) and this [guide on solving combinational logic problems for COMP 273](/COMP_273/summary/winter-2012/htsefp-digital-logic-combinational-logic) are all examples of student-created, course-related pages whose content is made available under [CC-BY-NC-3.0](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/).

# Why this license?

The notions of copyright and ownership can become a bit blurry in the context of a collaborative environment like WikiNotes. In this vein, we've adopted the same sort of policy as [Wikipedia](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Copyrights) (although we're using a different CC license and we're not co-licensing our content under the GFDL, purely to keep things simple). Our main goal is to ensure that all the information on this site remains freely accessible to anyone who wants to access it. We don't plan on ever restricting access by forcing users to pay or otherwise jump through hoops, and our choice of license is one way of showing our commitment to free-as-in-libre content. (We also don't intend on commercialising this site through advertisements or any other means.)

# What does this mean for me?

## As a contributor

If you contribute course content, you are making them available under the same [CC-BY-NC](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/3.0/) license that all of our course content uses. Of course, you still retain copyright to your content - you are simply granting WikiNotes a license to display your content publicly. If you are not comfortable with this but still wish to contribute, [contact us](/about#contact) and we'll work something out.

## As a reader

You are free to modify and redistribute any of the CC-licensed content on our website. Printing it out for personal use, sharing it with a friend, posting it on another website, or even mirroring the content on your own website (see paragraph below) are not only acceptable by the terms of the license, but encouraged. As long as you abide by the terms of the license - which really just means attributing the content to WikiNotes and refraining from using it for commercial purposes - then it's totally fine with us.

On the other hand, please do _not_ use our content for commercial purposes or without attribution. This includes selling the notes, posting it on your website and passing it off as your own, or posting it on a website from which you derive ad revenue.

If you modify the content substantially without intending to post the changes on WikiNotes, that's okay too, although we do hope that your improvements find their way back to our site eventually.
