readme.md, before:

![WikiNotes logo](http://www.wikinotes.ca/logo_new.png)

by the WikiNotes team

WikiNotes is a wiki-based note-sharing platform created to facilitate student collaboration. Although it is being created primarily for use by our [existing website for McGill students](http://www.wikinotes.ca), we are releasing the code under the [GPLv3](http://opensource.org/licenses/GPL-3.0) so that non-McGill students (or anyone, really) can benefit from it as well. This platform is currently under heavy development, with a beta available at http://beta.wikinotes.ca.

Want to find out more about us? Visit our [about page](http://www.wikinotes.ca/wiki/wikinotes:About), join our IRC channel (#wikinotes on freenode) or drop us a line at admin@wikinotes.ca.

Contributing
------------

We'd love to have you contribute, whether it be through adding features, filing bug reports, writing tests or whatever takes your fancy. Contributing code is easy - just fork this repository, make your changes, and send us a pull request. To see what needs to be done, check out the [list of outstanding issues](https://github.com/dellsystem/wikinotes/issues) or the [roadmap to BETA](https://github.com/dellsystem/wikinotes/issues/48). If you notice something else that needs to be done, feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/dellsystem/wikinotes/issues/new) for it.

See also our [development wiki](https://github.com/dellsystem/wikinotes/wiki) for things like what style conventions we use, development notes and how the code is organised.

Dependencies
------------

To run it on your local machine, you'll need the following dependencies:

* python 2.7+
* django 1.3+
* python-yaml
* python-markdown 2.1.0 (all necessary extensions are either included in the default package or bundled with the source of wikinotes)
* django-gravatar
* python-django-south (South through easy_install)
* gitpython
* git 1.7+ (older versions may work), both for version control and for the wiki software itself
* pygments

Configuration
-------------

If you're running it for the first time, take note of the following setup instructions:

* `chmod +x bootstrap`
* `./bootstrap` - create the superuser at this point (you may also wish to run this if any database schema changes have been made since your last pull)
* `python manage.py runserver` (by default, this makes the platform accessible at [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000); add `0.0.0.0:8000` if you want to make it publicly accessible through your IP address)
* To run the unit tests, just do `python manage.py test wiki`

Commit message:

Add Travis image to readme.md

readme.md, after:

![WikiNotes logo](http://www.wikinotes.ca/logo_new.png)

by the WikiNotes team

WikiNotes is a wiki-based note-sharing platform created to facilitate student collaboration. Although it is being created primarily for use by our [existing website for McGill students](http://www.wikinotes.ca), we are releasing the code under the [GPLv3](http://opensource.org/licenses/GPL-3.0) so that non-McGill students (or anyone, really) can benefit from it as well. This platform is currently under heavy development, with a beta available at http://beta.wikinotes.ca.

Want to find out more about us? Visit our [about page](http://www.wikinotes.ca/wiki/wikinotes:About), join our IRC channel (#wikinotes on freenode) or drop us a line at admin@wikinotes.ca.

Contributing
------------

We'd love to have you contribute, whether it be through adding features, filing bug reports, writing tests or whatever takes your fancy. Contributing code is easy - just fork this repository, make your changes, and send us a pull request. To see what needs to be done, check out the [list of outstanding issues](https://github.com/dellsystem/wikinotes/issues) or the [roadmap to BETA](https://github.com/dellsystem/wikinotes/issues/48). If you notice something else that needs to be done, feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/dellsystem/wikinotes/issues/new) for it.

See also our [development wiki](https://github.com/dellsystem/wikinotes/wiki) for things like what style conventions we use, development notes and how the code is organised.

We're using [Travis](http://travis-ci.org) for continuous integration and Django's unit-testing framework for the tests. Current build status of the master branch: [![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/dellsystem/wikinotes.png?branch=ci)](http://travis-ci.org/dellsystem/wikinotes)

Dependencies
------------

To run it on your local machine, you'll need the following dependencies:

* python 2.7+
* django 1.3+
* python-yaml
* python-markdown 2.1.0 (all necessary extensions are either included in the default package or bundled with the source of wikinotes)
* django-gravatar
* python-django-south (South through easy_install)
* gitpython
* git 1.7+ (older versions may work), both for version control and for the wiki software itself
* pygments

Configuration
-------------

If you're running it for the first time, take note of the following setup instructions:

* `chmod +x bootstrap`
* `./bootstrap` - create the superuser at this point (you may also wish to run this if any database schema changes have been made since your last pull)
* `python manage.py runserver` (by default, this makes the platform accessible at [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000); add `0.0.0.0:8000` if you want to make it publicly accessible through your IP address)
* To run the unit tests, just do `python manage.py test wiki`
